# dns-implementation
DNS Implementation Project - Object Oriented Programming

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION

In this project, you are going to implement a basic Domain Name System (DNS) mechanism. Even though used extensively on the web, most of the time we are not aware of using it. DNS is a distributed and hierarchical naming system for the devices connected to the Internet. It has many functionalities, but generally its main objective can be expressed as transforming the domain names into corresponding IP addresses for accessing requested services.  
A domain name, such as boun.edu.tr, is a string that is used for addressing issues. Since it is hard to memorize complicated IP addresses in the format of A.B.C.D (each part of an IP address is a decimal representation of a 8-bit number), the web sites or network domains are accessed through easily-memorizable domain names. However, the computers/terminals connected to the Internet are capable of communicating via only IP addresses. Therefore, the domain names should be initially resolved and its IP address should be obtained for communication. In other words, DNS works as a mapping mechanism, which provides the corresponding IP addresses for a requested domain name.

In fact, the original implementation, functionalities and structure of DNS are more complex, but in this project we are going to implement a simple version of it. It is represented as a tree structure, where the domains are organized in this tree accordingly. An example structure of overall DNS mechanism is shown in Figure 2. In this ﬁgure, it can be observed that the domain names are organized as subdomains of the DNS root. If a corresponding node represents a valid domain name, such as twitter.com, its IP address can be returned to the computer requesting this domain name. On the other hand, if a node does not include a valid domain name, such as .ac.uk, it does not have any IP address and it just functions as an intermediate node to the valid domain names.  
Continuing from the previous example, after fetching the IP address of the BOUN main web server, the user computer stores this information in its local cache, so that it does not send another request to the DNS if BOUN web page is requested once more. However, local cache has a limited size, so that it can only store a ﬁnite number of domain name - IP address mapping. There are diﬀerent algorithms to manage the cache replacement operations, and this project follows a simple one that is explained in the description file.